Inquisition Campaign Setting 1

Dying Light Credits 2  Credits Design and Development  Guillaume Tardif  Front Cover Art  Mohamed Hassan  Back Cover Art  Patrick Neufelder  Proofreading  Anastasia Steele, Emma Sansalone  Playtesting  Benjamin Tardif, Martine Anquetil, Maxime Bergeron  Special Thanks  Anastasia Steele, J. Scott Zumwalt, Lydia Michaud Tardif This product was created under license.   GENESYS   and its logo, and   GENESYS FOUNDRY   and its logo, are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Games in the U.S.A. and other countries. All Fantasy Flight Games characters and character names, and the distinctive likenesses thereof, are trademarks of Fantasy Flight Games. www.Fantasy- FlightGames.com This work contains material that is copyright Fantasy Flight Games and/or other authors. Such material is used with permission under the Community Content Agreement for Genesys Foundry. All other original material in this work is copyright 2019 by Guillaume Tardif and published under the Com- munity Content Agreement for Genesys Foundry. If you have any feedback, issues, or questions contact me on Discord as Korlall#3628, or email at tardif.guillaume@gmail.com Document Version 1.0

Dying Light Contents 3  Contents  I ntroduct I on   ............................................ 4  Adventure Overview   ............................................ 4 Adventure Background   ........................................ 4 Timeline   ............................................................... 6 Important Characters   .......................................... 6 Adventure Summary   ............................................ 7  Investigating the Mist................................................7 Preparing for the adventure   .....................................7 Reaching the Island   ...................................................7 Navigating the Bay   ....................................................7 Stepping on the Island   ..............................................7 Investigating the Lighthouse   ....................................7 Fighting the Dead   ......................................................7 Meeting Emma   ..........................................................7 Final showdown   .........................................................7 Aftermath   ...................................................................7  Game Preparation   ................................................ 7 Engaging the Characters   ...................................... 8  Local patrons   ..............................................................8 Clergy Member   ..........................................................8 Monster Hunting   .......................................................8 Traveler   .......................................................................8 Naval Crew   .................................................................8  Darkwood Cove Village   ....................................... 8  Church   ........................................................................9 Dacing Crab Inn   ........................................................9 Darkwood Bay   ...........................................................9 Darkwood Trading Company   ..................................9 High Town   ................................................................10 Lighthouse   ................................................................10 Market Place   .............................................................10 Mill   ............................................................................10 Shipyard   ....................................................................10 Lewis Mansion   .........................................................10  d y I ng   L I ght   ............................................. 11  Introduction   ....................................................... 11 Investigating the mist ......................................... 11  The Carlisle’s Survivor   .............................................11 Official meeting   .......................................................12 Call to Arms   .............................................................12  Preparing for Adventure   .................................... 13  Investigating the Browns   ........................................13 Darkwood Cove’s Church .......................................14  Reaching the Island   ............................................ 14  Hiring someone   .......................................................14 Rent a boat   ................................................................15 Steal a boat   ................................................................15  Navigating the Bay   ............................................. 15 Stepping on the Island ........................................ 16  The Browns’ Home   ..................................................16 Backyard   ...................................................................17 The Lighthouse   ........................................................17  Investigating the Lighthouse   ............................. 17  The Beacon   ...............................................................18 Secret Basement   .......................................................18  Fighting the Dead ............................................... 19 Meeting Emma   ................................................... 19  Social Encounter   ......................................................20  Final Showdown   ................................................. 20  Fighting Emma and Livia Together   ......................20 Fighting Livia alone .................................................20 Emma (Nemesis)   .....................................................21 Livia (Nemesis)   ........................................................21 Livia’s Destruction   ...................................................22  Aftermath   ........................................................... 22  Ending the Adventure   .............................................22 Emma’s Fate   ..............................................................22 Adventures beyond Dying Light   ...........................22

Dying Light Introduction 4  Introduction  L ocated at the border of Green Shire County, the bar- ony of Darkwood Cove borders the shores of the Hungry Sea. Near the coast stands a village that houses about 1,200 souls. This settlement has a crucial impor- tance for the county as its port is one of Green Shire’s main trade routes, with merchants’ ships going in and out daily. The people of Darkwood Cove mostly support themselves through this trade as the village, being sur- rounded by forest, has close to no farmlands. This adventure may be used as an introduction to Inquisition as it will introduce the characters to the setting’s key themes: witches and supernatural beings. This module was designed for two to four player char- acters with about 30 XP past character creation. In the first half of this document, you will find the following information, which will help you prepare for the adventure: •   Adventure Overview:   This is a brief description of the adventure. •   Adventure Background:   This part explains what happened in Darkwood Cove prior to the PCs’ ar- rival •   Timeline:   This section gives the dates of the major events related to the adventure. •   Important Characters:   This section lists the im- portant characters that the PCs will either interact with, or will hear of. •   Adventure Summary:   This part quickly goes over each scene to give you an idea of what the players are expected to accomplish over the course of this adventure. •   Game Preparation:   This section gives guidance on which rules from Genesys and Inquisition you have to be used to in order to run the adventure smoothly. •   Engaging the Player Characters:   This section of- fers advice on how to incorporate the PCs into the adventure, whether they use provided pregener- ated characters or their own. •   Darkwood Cove Overview:   This section gives a detailed description of the settlement.  Adventure Overview  The player characters find themselves in the village of Darkwood Cove. The lighthouse suddenly went dark, which is troublesome for the economy of the settle- ment as trade ships cannot come in and out of the bay anymore. The Player Characters are going to investi- gate the situation, traveling to the island lighthouse and facing its mysteries.  Adventure Background  The lighthouse stands on a remote island and guides ships into the bay. Without its light, ships are doomed to wreck on the high reefs. The evening before the start of the adventure, the beacon did not become lit. With- out this beacon, the town is ruined, as naval trade is its main source of income. The current situation is the consequence of events that took place a few years ago. Back then, the Brown family were farmers, one of the few families in Dark- wood Cove who had a suitable parcel of land to culti- vate. At some point, Darkwood Cove suffered from a thunderstorm and a lightning bolt struck a tree close to the farm and started a fire. Wind helped to spread

Dying Light Introduction   5  the flames and all the Browns’ crops burned down, as well as their home. The land burned and could not be cultivated for some time, leaving the Browns hopeless. Few days prior to this event, the current lighthouse keeper passed away. The baron decided to relocate the Browns — Remillard, his wife Livia, and their daughter Emma — to the little island to maintain the lighthouse. During the day, the family either fished, ran errands in town, or slept. At night, Remillard stayed up to main- tain the beacon. Unfortunately for them, their misfortunes did not end. One day, Remillard and his wife went fishing while Emma was playing with her friends in town.. A storm came out of nowhere and Remillard and Livia’s fishing boat flipped upside down. The couple struggled to swim back to the island but in the process, Livia drowned. Remillard barely made it back to the shore, carrying the unconscious body of his wife. He tried to resuscitate her once they reached the shore but failed. That evening, when Remillard returned to the main- land to get Emma back, he was carrying Livia’s body. A hasty ceremony took place and the village priest offered blessings to the deceased. The day after, she was buried behind the Browns’ house on the island. Emma always blamed her father for failing to save her beloved mother. From that point, the relationship between the two took deteriorated. Something more sinister came out of this though. The emotional distress caused by her mother’s death woke something inside the little girl: Lilithia’s essence. Her mother was raised in an orphanage and never suspected that she had the potential for witchcraft, and thus never told her daugh- ter of her dark heritage. When Emma manifested this innate ability, she was frightened at first. However, she slowly became accus- tomed to it, learning how to cast some basic spells. Be- fore long, she had a goal: inventing a spell that could bring her mother back from the dead. But one day, her father caught her experimenting with her magic. An ar- gument took place, during which Remillard explained that witchcraft is evil and that Emma should stop using it immediately. Should anyone else has discovered her ability, it would mean the pyre for Emma and probably even execution for Remillard. Even when she explained her plan, he insisted that magic was far too dangerous. This led to Emma accusing her father of not loving his wife enough to want her back. In the end, Emma prom- ised to never use magic again. Of course, she had no intention to keep her word. She simply became more cautious when practicing her witchcraft, and slowly be- came a more powerful spellcaster. Just a few days before the start of the adventure, Emma felt ready for the necromantic ritual. She need- ed some empathic link with her mother so she dug her up and snatched a finger bone. Unfortunately for her, Remillard, who assumed she was asleep, surprised her. Remillard was angry with Emma for desecrating his wife’s grave and breaking her promise to never use magic again. He was so furious that he grabbed Emma by the arm, dragged her back to the lighthouse, and locked her up in the basement so he could regain his composure and bury his wife’s body. Emma got even angrier with her father and brought back accusations of not loving Livia enough to want her back. While locked, she did not wait peacefully for her father to come back. Using some supplies that were already in the basement, she managed to create a magic circle and start her ritual. Since witchcraft is empathic by nature, her current emotional state corrupted the spell. Instead of bringing her mother as she appeared in life, she summoned a dark and twisted creature called a banshee. This entity is not actually Livia, but its existence is fueled by Emma’s emotions and desires and thus it sees itself as the girl’s mother. Despite her undead appearance, Emma feels a connection to her mother and her delusions make her overlook this grim fact. To her, the ritual was a success. Animated with Emma’s emotions and anger, the ban- shee quickly turned against Emma’s father, killing him where he stood. With the keeper dead, there was no one to light the beacon that evening, and Emma could not care less for it anyway. This event did not go unnoticed. Rowan, the town’s baron, sent a few of his men to investigate the light- house. There, they discovered Remillard’s body and the teenage girl. They asked her what happened, and were frightened when she said that her mother killed him. They asked the girl to come back to town with them, but she declined. When they tried to force her, the ban- shee appeared and slaughtered them. To protect her daughter further from outsiders, the banshee created a thick magical fog that surrounded the island and even expended to fill most of the bay. The morning after, the baron grew worried about his men not returning. Furthermore, a ship entering the bay overnight could not navigate properly in the thick fog and without the beacon. The baron’s men’s ship was wrecked and everyone aboard drowned, except for a single survivor who managed to reach the shore. Early that morning, as the adventure begins, the local priest will meet with the baron and come to the conclu- sion that the phenomena is due to witchcraft and needs

Dying Light Introduction 6  to summon the Inquisitorium. He will send them a ra- ven asking for their support. The baron knew he could not simply wait for tem- plars as the situation was threatening the economy of the village. Therefore, he had the town crier informing the population of a reward for anyone that would light back the beacon and investigate the fate of his men as well as the Browns.  Timeline  May 14th 644   The lighthouse keeper dies.  May 22th 644   The Browns’ farm burns down during a thunderstorm.  May 24th 644   Baron Lewis relocates the Browns to the lighthouse duty.  July 3rd 647   Livia drowns in the bay. This event awak- ens Lilithia’s magic into Emma.  Dec 11th 647   Remillard discovers Emma’s magic abili- ties. He tells her to stop using it.  Oct 10th 649   Remillard catches Emma as she digs out Livia in the middle of the night. He locks her up in the lighthouse’s basement.  Oct 11th 649   Emma performs her ritual, creating the banshee. The creature kills her father as well as the baron’s men coming to investi- gate. The Carlisle wrecks overnight.  Oct 12th 649   Livia raises the fog. Father Daniel sum- mons the Inquisitorium as Baron Lewis calls to arms potential adventurers.  Important Characters  •   Remillard Brown:   Former farmer, Remillard is the new lighthouse keeper. He is already dead at the start of the adventure, his body still lying in his house. •   Livia Brown:   Remillard’s wife. She drowned two years ago; her body is buried behind the Browns’ house. Emma recently brought her back as ban- shee, fueled by the girl’s emotions. Livia is the big- gest threat the players will face during this adven- ture. •   Emma Brown:   Teenage daughter of the Browns, she realized two years ago that she was a witch. Driven by her wish to get her mother back, she performed a necromantic ritual that revived her as a banshee. This event is the origin of the cur- rent situation and therefore, makes her the main antagonist. •   Michael:   Sailor aboard the   Carlisle , Michael is the only survivor who made it alive to the shore once the ship wrecked. Michael plays only a minor role in the adventure as he is not linked to the events. Still, his tale of the wreck can give the Player Char- acters a hint about the presence of a supernatural being on the island. •   Baron Rowan Lewis:   Rowan Lewis is the baron of Darkwood Cove and has been for the last 9 years. He has become greedier over the years to a point where he closes his eyes at some smuggling activi- ties, as long as he can get some profit out of it. The baron is a fair ruler but is strict on law-enforce- ment, smuggling aside. He really cares for his town and hopes someone will solve that incident soon. •   Father Daniel:   Daniel is the local priest. Soon after the adventure begins, he sends a messenger raven to summon the Inquisitorium. Daniel can fill a support role to the PCs depending on their atti- tude towards him. At first, Daniel is against having someone from outside the Church investigate the lighthouse, but should he be convinced that the sit- uation is dire to the point where Darkwood Cove cannot afford to wait, Daniel can provide some gear to help the party solve the mystery.

Dying Light Introduction   7  Adventure Summary  This section describes the main plot of the adventure, and how the story is expected to unfold.  Investigating the Mist  As the adventure begins, the PCs become aware of the eerie fog that fills the bay and the consequences it has on the village through the town crier and the towns- folk. They have a chance to find their first clue about the presence of the banshee if they investigate the beach.  Preparing for the adventure  Before travelling to the island, the PCs have a chance to gather information about the Browns’ history and Emma’s motivations. They can also gain the support of Father Daniel who can provide them with resources that can help them to face the challenges on the island.  Reaching the Island  The characters are now ready to travel to the island and they must find a mean of transportation.  Navigating the Bay  While normally calm, navigating the bay will prove dangerous as Livia will make the tides violent and will distract the PCs. They will have to stay focused and show skills to avoid being thrown off their boat.  Stepping on the Island  In this part the PCs get their first taste of the mystery. Since the Lighthouse is locked, they are going to inves- tigate the rest of the island. They will find the bodies of the baron’s men, as well as Remillard’s body. They will find the lighthouse’s key, as well as the keeper’s jour- nal and they will discover the recently dug up Livia’s burial site. That should immerse the PCs in the adven- ture’s gloomy atmosphere. This part is where the GM can start building up the dramatic feel of the situation, hinting at the supernatural forces watching the PCs.  Investigating the Lighthouse  After getting the key to the lighthouse, the PCs can in- vestigate it. There, they will discover the underground secret room where Emma was locked and where she performed her necromantic ritual.  Fighting the Dead  As they leave the lighthouse, the PCs will have their first interaction with the supernatural as they will have to fight the reanimated corpses of Remillard and the baron’s men, raised by Emma to force the PCs out of the island.  Meeting Emma  The player characters will meet Emma at this point. They will have a chance to solve the situation peacefully or weaken Livia to make the fight less difficult.  Final showdown  If diplomacy fails or if the PCs engage in hostilities, the banshee shows up and they will have to fight both Emma and Livia.  Aftermath  Once they have solved the situation, the PCs will col- lect their reward and, if Emma is still alive, decide what is to happen with the teenage witch.  Game Preparation  Before running this adventure, the GM should read this document in its entirety, to make sure the game can run as smooth as possible. This adventure is de- signed to mix the use of social interaction, investiga- tion as well as a few combat encounters,and therefore is an excellent way to initiate new players to both the system and the setting. This adventure makes use of the Fear rules (page 242 of the   Genesys Core Rulebook ), and the Social En- counter rules (page 118 of the   Genesys Core Rulebook ).

Dying Light Introduction 8  You should also be familiar with the Silver item quality (page 68 of   Inquisition ) as all adversaries from this ad- venture have the silver anathema ability.  Engaging the Characters  Engaging the characters sin this adventure should be easy as the repercussions of the situation are affecting many people. The pre-generated characters available with this adventure already have their motivations to participate in this adventure on their character sheets. If the players are using their own characters, here are some ideas on how to engage them:  Local patrons  A player character could be calling Darkwood Cove their home. Whatever their social rank is, having the naval trade route shut down is likely to cause problems for them. Maybe their trade depends on that naval route and like the baron, the character cannot let this situation go on that much longer.  Clergy Member  A situation such as this one normally ends up with a small group of templars being dispatched. It is actually what Father Daniel hopes by summoning the Inquisi- torium. A character from the clergy might want to in- vestigate the case prior to the templars’ arrival, hoping for some renown within the organization, or simply thinks that the situation needs a resolution as soon as possible.  Monster Hunting  The eerie fog and the disappearance of the baron’s men on a tiny island screams “supernatural”. That is enough to motivate any monster hunter who is passing by to investigate the situation, whether they are motivated by doing good deeds or by the reward.  Traveler  In Darkwood Cove, people come and go. Maybe the character was about to embark on a boat to pursue their journey elsewhere, and this situation has brought unexpected delays they cannot afford.  Naval Crew  For anyone working on a ship, being unable to sail is a major setback. Maybe the character was aboard a ship that made a stop in Darkwood Cove and was about to take to the sea again when the event occurred. Their ship or its cargo might be needed elsewhere and inves- tigating the situation would allow the character to cut delays.  Darkwood Cove Village  Affiliation:   Green Shire County, Siven Kingdom  Population:   1,200  Ruler:   Baron Rowan  Exports:   Darkwood, Fish  Rarity Modifier:   +0  Notable NPCs:   Baron Rowan Lewis, Father Daniel  Points of Interest:   Darkwood Bay, Darkwood Cove Trading Company, Lewis Mansion, Lighthouse, Ship- yard, Dancing Crab Inn. Darkwood Cove is a village established on the shores of the Hungry Sea, within the Kingdom of Siven. It plays a major role for the Green Shire County, as it opens the possibilities of transporting goods by ship, which is faster and safer than travelling on the main land. Built along the coast, the settlement houses about 1200 souls. It is surrounded by forest-covered hills and only has a few acres of farmable lands. The region is known for its dark-barked colored trees, which gave the village its name. Because the wood is of such high quality, it is the village’s primary source of income, along with trading and fishing. Soon after people settled in, the construction of the shipyard began. Once it was operational, the village experienced a rapid demographic growth. The town

Dying Light Introduction   9  spread as warehouses were built along the coast. Be- coming richer by the day with the naval trade route, the ruler back then ordered the construction of a new mansion, standing on some promontory, offering the noble a view on the entire bay and town.  Church  People gather at the church to listen to Father Daniel’s sermons. Aside from him, the stone building is main- tained by two Brothers. The church stands by the main road, so everyone coming to Darkwood Cove, whether it is by the bay or by land will inevitably walk by. Be- side the building stand the gallows, as well as a pyre. While no witches have been executed in the last year, the structures remind the population that the inquisi- tion is still going. The church is a keypoint to the adventure as this is where the player characters can secure Daniel’s help to gain resources for fighting the supernatural that awaits them on the island.  Dacing Crab Inn  This great stone and wood building is the only inn of Darkwood Cove. Its rooms are always rented by the numerous merchants and sailors that go through town. Now that the naval route is closed, the inn should be full of impatient merchants eager to take to the sea.  Darkwood Bay  The village is built along the bay’s coast. The bay is normally busy. Many habitants are anglers and spend their day on the waters of the bay. Trade ships are also coming daily from Theavan, Fegary and the Republic of Vanas. All activities are currently suspended due to the fog and everyone is affected by this.  Darkwood Trading Company  The old mansion has been converted into the office of the Darkwood Cove Trading Company. There, the DCTC manages the village’s imports and exports, the whole docks section and docking fees. It owns the warehouses near the docs and is tasked to collect taxes

Dying Light Introduction 10  for the baron on the trade goods going in and out of town. The company has a few ships of their own, car- rying mostly the precious darkwood material to other kingdoms.  High Town  The high town is the district where the most prosper- ous people live, which in this case are rich merchants. It is built on the slope leading to the promontory where the baron’s mansion stands. The streets are paved with cobblestones and there are always a few of the baron’s men patrolling the area.  Lighthouse  The central point of the adventure, the lighthouse off the shore is where the player character will have to head to accomplish the mission by defeating Emma and the banshee.  Market Place  The market place is a busy place all day due to the nev- erending flow of merchants and travelers inside the town. Many stands are placed in a circle where the ar- tisans and merchants display their wares. This could be a good place for the player characters to find supplies for their quest. If they lack silver weaponry, a character with good negotiation skill might get lucky here.  Mill  The mill is the place where the farmers bring their grain to make flour. It was one of the first buildings of Dark- wood Cove. It serves no purpose for this adventure.  Shipyard  Darkwood Cove is constructing sailing ships to add to the kingdom’s merchant fleet. As the fog sets in, the shipyard is closed and therefore, this location has no importance for this adventure. Still, you could have players investigating the shipyard find Michael on the beach close to it.  Lewis Mansion  The mansion houses Baron Rowan Lewis and his fam- ily. The exquisite building is surrounded by a stone fence, with a gate to access the estate. A guard stands by to restrict entrance. They will only let the characters pass if they mention they are investigating the event. Baron Lewis might be of a good source of information to recount the events since the lighthouse went dark.

Dying Light Dying Light   11  Dying Light Introduction  T he adventure should begin the morning after the baron sent his men to investigate. Livia created the mist overnight and the townsfolk become aware of it as they wake up. PCs are likely to witness the fog them- selves or hear about it. As soon as they step outside and look at the bay, paraphrase the following: The sun has risen from its slumber to lighten up the village on this cloudy day. As you look at the bay, you see this strange weather phenomenon. The whole bay is filled with a thick mist. Some of the docked boats are not even visible from where you stand. What is most mysterious is that the mist does not seem to spread to land.  Investigating the mist  You should let the PCs get the feel of the town’s reaction to the fog and investigate the mist by themselves. The local population fears the mist as it seems unnaturally thick and eerie. Should the PCs try to get to the church, Daniel the local priest is currently unavailable as he is meeting with Baron Lewis. The brothers maintaining the church can relay this fact to the PCs. Should the PCs try to reach out for the baron, the guard at the en- trance tells that he is busy and will not receive visitors right now.  The Carlisle’s Survivor  Overnight, the Carlisle has wrecked due to the fog and the absence of beacon. As the PCs witness the mist for the first time, Michael the sole survivor of the wreck is lying unconscious on the beach. Chances are that the PCs will be wandering around the bay at some point early in this adventure. They should come across Michael’s unconscious body. When they do, paraphrase the following: As you walk along the bay, looking at the mist, you see a strange shape ahead on the ground. As you get closer, it seems to be a body. You rush to it and see a man lying on his back. His eyes are closed and he is soaking wet.  The sailor is alive but simply unconscious. An   Aver- age ( dd ) Medicine check   will wake him up. Should the PCs fail, they can bring him back in town where the apothecary will successfully make the check. If the PCs do not investigate the beach, the townsfolk will find him and bring him back to the old town where the apothecary will revive him anyway. After reviving Michael, the PCs can question him re- garding the events from the last evening. If they either revive him themselves or bring him to the apothecary, Michael will share all the information he has. If the characters do not revive Michael, they can learn information from him after being revived by the apothecary. While investigating, you can have a PC roll an   Average( dd ) Vigilance check . If they succeed on the check, they hear villagers talking about a man who was found near the docs and was brought to the apoth- ecary. From there, the PCs can pay Michael a visit at the apothecary where he is resting. He is reluctant to

Dying Light Dying Light 12  discuss what he went through with the PCs since he perceives them as curious people not minding their own business. If the PCs manage to get Michael to talk, the sailor tells them about the night before. To recount the event, you can paraphrase the following: Michael stares at the horizon, as he recalls the events. “We had been working for the whole day. We should have called it a night but the cap- tain wanted to reach Darkwood that night. We searched the horizon looking for the beacon but it never showed. At Thrst, we though the captain might have miscalculated the trajectory… ” Mi- chaels swallows hard and he adds “but then the mist came upon us. We could barely see a few feet ahead and I heard this… noise. It was like a lamentation. It was coming from everywhere and was crawling its way inside my head. I became confused and tried to reach the edge of the deck hoping to see the mainland. Of course I could not see that far. ftere was this shadow though. It was hovering in the mist and then… darkness. I woke up when I was rescued.”  The description of the event is vague but is still enough for the PCs to attempt a   Hard ( ddd ) Knowl- edge (Forbidden) check . Due to a lack of details, add  b   to the check.  s : The details of the story fit a tale the PC has heard of, or read about. The character is pretty sure the crea- ture would be a banshee. It is an undead creature with a deadly voice. If the characters take precautions to resist the banshee’s voice, such as stoppering their ears with beeswax, they get a   b   on their Discipline check to re- sist the creature’s wailing ability.  a : The character gets the feel of the supernatural ori- gin of the phenomena and has time to mentally prepare for this encounter. The characters will benefit from a  b   on their Discipline check to resist the Banshee’s fear effect.  h : The story unnerves the PC, inflicting a strain per  h . In addition, when facing the banshee, the PC will suffer a   b   to resist its fear effect.  t : If successful, the characters can tell that the ban- shee’s is a creature fueled by emotions. The angrier it is, the more powerful it becomes. Such result will also tell the PCs that banshee is likely summoned through witchcraft and bound to the person that called them. If the check failed, treat it as if it was a successful one.  d : The story frightens the character. Instead of roll- ing initiative against the banshee later in the adventure, this character will be considered to have rolled the worst initiative roll. PCs can ask Michael other questions but he does not know anything else regarding that night.  Official meeting  Soon after the PCs start investigating, the meeting be- tween the priest and the baron ends and they are now both available to talk. The baron decided he would of- fer the population the opportunity to help with investi- gating the mist in exchange of a reward. Daniel on the other hand will send a raven to deliver a message to call in the Inquisitorium.  Call to Arms  Greg Cobham, the town crier, is leaving the mansion after a brief meeting with the Baron where he was as- signed the duty of informing the population of the situ- ation. PCs should hear the crier as they walk through town. When that happens, paraphrase the following: As you walk down the main street, you hear the voice of a man, shouting loud enough so all people on the street can hear him. ‘ People of Darkwood Cove, the lighthouse’s beacon has died out last night and there has been no news from the light- house keeper. Our lord Baron Lewis is oThering a reward of 1,000 silver crowns to anyone who will light the beacon and discover the fate of the Browns. A request has been sent to bring in the Inquisitorium should the situation last longer than expected. Meanwhile, by order of our lord Baron Rowan Lewis, all naval activities are suspended.

Dying Light Dying Light   13  Preparing for Adventure  By that time, PCs’ motivations should have kicked in and the given information should be enough to draw them to investigate. It is pretty obvious from the start that to resolve the situation, the player characters have to investigate the lighthouse. While they might be tempted to head there directly, they would benefit from investigating the town further as the information they will learn could help them to understand the mystery and defeat Emma and Livia. Furthermore, Father Daniel can provide them with items to overcome the challenges they will face on the island.  Investigating the Browns  The town holds information about the Brown fam- ily. From these information, the character can learn Emma’s Motivations (see   Genesys Core Rulebook   page 46). These elements will prove useful during the final scene as soothing her decreases the banshee’s powers. Livia and Remillard’s motivations are useless as they serve no purpose in solving the situation. Beside a brief overview of her parents, the following information is focused on Emma’s story and personality.  The family’s background  The Browns’ tragic past is a story everyone knows in Darkwood Cove Village. If any PC is native to this set- tlement, you can tell them the story of the farm, the fact that it burned down and that the baron moved them to the lighthouse. Should they do not have that knowledge, question- ing the villagers will tell them as much. In any case, no one actually knows about the witch blood running in the family.  Remillard  Remillard is native of Darkwood Cove. He inherited the farm from his father when he passed away. His mother died while giving birth to Hector, Remillard’s yonger brother. Hector left the town to become a sailor. He now comes back to Darkwood once in a while when trading but beside that, both brothers are independent from each other. Remillard was a demanding and strict father, expect- ing Emma to work hard to maintain the house and land. Since he lost his farm, Remillard was known for drinking a lot and would spend afternoons at the Danc- ing Crab Inn when not performing his duties. Remillard was a social fellow until the death of his wife. Afterwards, he stayed at the lighthouse unless he had to buy goods and food. People that went to visit him mostly found him half-drunk and filthy, obviously neglecting his hygiene.  Livia  Livia was raised in an orphanage outside Darkwood Cove. When she was a teen, she ran away as she hated the Sister who was responsible for her. She snuck her way into a carriage heading for Darkwood Cove. There, she lived on the streets until she met Remillard. They fell in love and the girl moved in with the Brown family after they got married. Livia was a caring and loving mother to Emma. It was a known fact that she sometimes fought with Remillard when he pushed the little girl too hard, demanding that she would contribute to the household as much as an adult. Despite being a witchborn, a fact she ignored herself, Livia was a religious person going to church every Sun- day to hear the sermon and spent time praying multiple times per day.  Emma’s Desire (Love)  Emma is the only child of the Brown family. Her father put her to work sooner that the average child and thus she had less time to play with her friends from the vil- lage. She is a girl who requires attention and being out in the fields with her father most of the day, she was lacking some. Fortunately, her mother was gentle with her and made sure she was spending quality time with her. After they moved to the island and she became a teen, Emma tried to find company among the villagers but was rejected. When Livia died, Emma felt alone. Even though her father loved her, he was not good at showing it and was dealing with grief himself. Emma wants her mother back so she can get the parental love she is lacking right now. This information can be obtained by talking with other teenagers. They can tell the time she flirted with a boy named Eliot but he had no interest in her.

Dying Light Dying Light 14  Emma’s Fear (Isolation)  Emma’s birth has been a difficult one and Livia nearly died in the process. Therefore, the Browns decided to not have other children. When they moved on the is- land, Emma felt even lonelier. She was unable to see the other children as often as she would have wanted to since she could not navigate the bay alone back then. Even her parents did not have much time for her as they had to maintain the beacon, even at night. The feeling grew more intense when Livia passed away and her father started drinking. She was now stranded with him on this tiny island. Emma had a hard time dealing with the reclusiveness. This information can be acquired by questioning the villagers about how the family handled the move after the farm burned. Asking teenagers about Emma would get the answer that she always wanted to be part of the gang and would go out of her way to be accepted. Kids used to either bully her or be rude but she would not hold lasting grudges as she was really seeking the ap- proval from others.  Emma’s Flaw (Anger)  It does not take much for Emma to jump at people. A mean remark or a crooked look was enough to make her mad or make her cry. Sadly for her, the village’s kids were making fun of her and pushed her specifically to witness her getting angry. It is that anger that fuels the banshee’s and made it kill her father. This information can be obtained by talking to the village teenagers as they can recall some of the times when they bullied her.  Emma’s Strength (Curious)  Emma has always been curious about everything. When not working in the fields, she was in town lis- tening to stories from the sailors, merchants and the occasional adventurer, monster hunter or templar stop- ping by. She was also curious about everything witch- related. When she discovered that she was witchborn, she immediately experimented with that power. This curiosity is known by the adults of the town. Emma was often seen at the Dancing Crab Inn, the marketplace and by the docks, asking questions about everything. Talking to people at the Inn will reveal this information as she spent quite some time there, asking questions of people coming in and out of town.  Darkwood Cove’s Church  Priest Daniel is responsible for the village’s church. Af- ter he came back from his meeting with the Baron, the first thing he did was send a raven carrying a message to the Inquisitorium. Daniel is really concerned by the events and is against the baron’s decision to send common folk to investi- gate. To him, these poor souls are being sent to slaugh- ter. Even though Daniel is the person in town that can help the PCs the most, he is unlikely to provide help as he wants to avoid the death of innocents. Still, if the PCs can convince him they are worthy, he can be a great help. Convincing Daniel requires either an opposed Leadership or Charm check. Daniel has a favorable attitude toward anyone showing affiliation to the Church. If the party includes such a character, such as a templar or a priest, downgrade the difficulty of the social check by 1. Even though he is not a fan of mon- ster hunters himself, Daniel knows that they are people capable of investigating the incident. If the party has a monster hunter or someone posing as one, (wielding a silver weapon, for example), add   b   to the check to con- vince him. If the party has both elements, they benefit from these two bonuses. The GM could decide that the check is not necessary and that Daniel is automatically convinced if the party composition is an obvious fit for the job, such as a party mixing exclusively templars, priests and monster hunters. If Daniel is convinced, he will give the characters two liquid silver vials, two health elixirs and a bottled cour- age potion.  Reaching the Island  Player characters have limited ways of reaching the is- land. They can either convince someone to bring them there, or they take a boat for themselves.  Hiring someone  Normally, the people of the village would gladly take the PCs as passengers to reach the lighthouse. How- ever, with the thick fog, villagers do not want to take

Dying Light Dying Light   15  the risk of not coming back. Because the villagers are poor, money is always a good incentive. For 100 silver coins, an angler will take the risk to bring them there. The money has to be paid in advance so should some- thing happen, their family would have the bonus in- come. The price can be halved with an   Average ( dd ) Negotiation check .  Rent a boat  Renting a ship is less expensive as it does not endanger anyone else beside the player characters. A ship can be rented for the trip for as low as 20 silver coins. While this solution is less expensive, this brings an additional risk to the characters as they are unfamiliar with the bay. A successful   Average ( dd ) Negotiation check  halves the price.  Steal a boat  Should the PCs be low on funds or decide to not invest in transport, they can sneak by the docks and steal a small rowboat. The docks are clear of people since they do not risk approaching the bay. Still, while they are gone, the owner could notice that their boat was stolen and accuse the PCs once they return. The baron will compensate the owner and understand that the end- justified the means but this might come back at them should the PCs deal with the townsfolk beyond the scope of this adventure, as the people do not appreciate their belongings being stolen.  Navigating the Bay  Once they have a ship, PCs can travel to the remote is- land that holds the lighthouse. The trip is dangerous though as fog is impairing visibility. At some point before reaching the island, Livia will try to interfere with the PCs’ efforts. She will make the waves become more treacherous, trying to trying to overturn the boat. She will also start moaning. Her voice is strong enough to be heard over the waves and the PCs talking. You can paraphrase the following to describe the situation. You embark on the small boat and untie the rope. You start rowing and it only takes a couple of strokes before the docks vanish into the fog. You are now lost in this thick mist and you cannot hear a thing except the sounds of the paddles on the calm bay. You navigate for a few minutes and you feel that the waters are becoming more turbulent, as if the wind suddenly rose. The boat is pitching and you have to hold on to avoid being thrown oft. The wind carries an eerie sound, like a mournful wail of a woman. You try to pinpoint the source but the sound seems to be coming from everywhere. At one moment, you think you saw a humanoid shadow hovering above the water but the moment affier, it is gone. You focus back on navigating and try to reach the island.  To fight against the current and reach the shore, PCs need to work together to maneuver the ship. This will take the form of a single   Average ( dd ) Athletics check . The check suffers a   b   from the fog and another  b   from the banshee’s distracting moaning, unless the PCs have a means of protecting themselves from the sound. Have a single PC make the check, assisted by another PC, representing the two that are rowing. If they hired an angler, they can be the one making the check or assisting. Treat the angler as having 2 Agil- ity and 2 ranks in Athletics. In addition, their expertise grants a   b   on this check to maneuver the boat. If the check succeeds, they reach the island safely. Each Threat during this check inflicts a strain to every PC. Should the check fails, the boat is flipped upside down. PCs now have to swim through the final stretch of water separating them from the shore. Each PC must make a   Hard ( ddd ) Athletics check . Even if the check fails, the PCs will reach the shore. But each PC suffers one wound on a failed check plus one wound per   f  generated as their body is slammed against rocks, and one strain per   h   generated from the exhaustion. The angler is lost during this scene as the waves brought him farther away.

Dying Light Dying Light 16  Stepping on the Island  Whether they managed to keep their boat or not, the PCs step on the island. The fog is thinner on the island itself, allowing characters to see well up to short range. When interacting with anything beyond short range, they add a   b   to their checks due to poor visibility. When they arrive at the island, paraphrase the fol- lowing: You step on a small dirt patch on the edge of the island. Two other boats are already docked and tied to an old wooden pillar. You realize that the bay has suddenly regained its usual calm and the eerie sound is gone. From where you stand you cannot see much of the island except for a steep dirt slope paved with old wooden planks leading to the main area about twelve feet above the sea level.  The island is small. Two characters standing at op- posite sides of it are at Long range of each other. From the docks, characters can take a few steps to walk up a slope to reach the main area. As they reach the place, paraphrase the following: You walk up a dirt slope and reach the center of the island, about twelve feet above the sea level. Normally you would have a nice view of the bay but the fog prevents you from seeing even the water, though you still hear the waves crashing against the shore down below. You now stand on a small grassy area. Close to you is an old wooden house. Its door is closed and so are its windows. Beside it stands the lighthouse: a grand circular structure made of stones with a strong wooden door. Due to fog, you cannot see its top. Between the two buildings is a small trail that leads to the back of the house.  From there, the PCs can investigate the home, the lighthouse and the backyard. Since the PCs lack the key to the lighthouse, this should be the last location they explore.  The Browns’ Home  The entrance door to the house is unlocked. When the PCs enter, paraphrase the following: You enter the humble home of the Browns. The room you are walking in is the main room, serving as the living room and kitchen. The place is a mess, as if no one has been taking care of it for days, if not weeks. The room has a table with three chairs. All of them are currently lying on their sides across the room. There are also bodies lying around. The stench coming from them is terrible, and you start feeling the nausea building up. One of them is wearing common clothes, while the others are wearing the Darkwood Cove law enforcement at- tire. The kitchen counter has a cutting board with fruits and vegetables that are obviously not fresh. A knife lays on the board. In one corner of the room is a desk with books and writing materials. A door is leading to another room of the house. Judging by the size of this room, there cannot be really more than two rooms in this house.  Main Room  Here, the PCs learn the fate of the baron’s men and Mr. Brown. The banshee killed them the day before. A PC examining the corpses will find strange red marks but that would not have been enough to cause their death. If the PCs want to proceed with a thorough examina- tion, have them roll an   Average ( dd ) Medicine check . A success will reveal that the marks were done by something flogging the men. There is also evidence of choking. In addition, the faces of these men are con- torted with terror. Note that there is as many of baron’s men as there are PCs in the group minus one. The kitchen part has nothing useful to offer. Remi- llard has been neglecting it during his last days before he was killed and the kitchen shows this.  Remillard’s Desk  The desk is the place where Remillard Brown kept the logs of the bay’s activity. These are just descriptions of inbound and outbound ships and do not carry any relevant information. He also kept a personal journal, in which he addressed his deceased wife. This was the man’s way of dealing with his grief.

Dying Light Dying Light   17  This journal is interesting to the PCs as it gives them a taste of Remillard’s last days. The first pages of the journal are what you would expect of someone deal- ing with grief. It takes the form of a letter to his wife, in which he reminisces fondly on his best memories of her. Then, the diary takes the form of his flow of thoughts. What stands out is that his daughter Emma held him responsible for the death of Livia, as he was unable to save her. Many pages of the diary are about the fights they had together and how desperate he felt to raise the little girl on his own. Then, there is an entry from December 8th 647 that catches the PCs’ attention. Remillard describes how strange Emma has been act- ing, which represents the time when she started experi- menting with witchcraft. Then, many pages have been torn out of the journal. These were burnt when he re- alized her behavior was due to witchcraft. He did not want to keep any records that would reveal the truth. After these missing pages, the remaining ones narrate a desperate Remillard, dark and grim in his thoughts, wondering what he did to earn this, and even suggest that he might have considered taking his own life. De- spite all this, the remaining pages do not mention what happened. The last entry was written two days ago. In one of the drawers is the key to the lighthouse’s main door.  Bedroom  The door leads to the family’s bedroom. When the PCs enter the room, paraphrase the following: The door opens up on a small bedroom. There is not much in there beside two beds, one for the par - ents and the other one for their daughter. A large chest stands by the corner of the room.  This room serves no purpose for this adventure. It is simply the place where the family slept. The chest is full of clothes.  Backyard  The PCs can reach the backyard by following the trail between the two buildings. When they do so, para- phrase the following: You walk beside the house until you reach the backyard. The small area borders the edge of the island. Since the buildings are near the clift as well, the little trail you took is the only way to get there. In the middle of the area stands a wooden cross. It has a carving showing ‘ Livia Brown 614-647’.  Even though the grave is two years old, the earth cov- ering it was disturbed recently. This information can be given to any character investigating the grave or, on a successful   Average( dd ) Vigilance check   should they not interact with it. A few days ago, Emma dug up the grave and took one of her mother’s finger bones, hoping to use it to bring her back to life through witchcraft. When Remillard caught her, he locked her up in the lighthouse’s base- ment and filled back the grave.  The Lighthouse  The strong wooden door giving access to the building is locked. Normally, a strong character could manage to break it down. But in this case, the surrounding magic reinforces the door, shielding Emma from out- side threats. Still, the door can be kicked open with a  Daunting   ( dddd ) Athletics check , adding a   b   for the lock. While the PCs will surely fall back and investigate the other locations first,they can rush in and break into the Lighthouse if they achieve the check. The high dif- ficulty to break in is meant to encourage players to in- vestigate and thus to slowly uncover the mystery.  Investigating the Lighthouse  Once they enter the Lighthouse, whether by unlocking it or breaking down the door, paraphrase the following: As you walk into the lighthouse, you see a bunch of crates and barrels along with wood supplies or - ganized across the room Thlling about half of the open space. A stone staircase is spiraling up to reach a balcony-like surface at the top. From there, a ladder leads to a hatch in the ceiling.

Dying Light Dying Light 18  The supplies there are mostly food and fresh water for the family to sustain themselves, with a few tools, oil lamps, and other mundane gear.  The Beacon  The stairs and the ladder lead to the beacon. When the PCs reach the rooftop, paraphrase the following: You open the latch and see the fog in the sky above. You climb out of the room and set foot on the rooThop. fte place is a round area smaller than the room below. At the center strands a giant bra- zier. ftere is wood in it but it is unlit. You cannot see much around as the fog is thick.  Lighting the beacon now will not solve the situation as the fog blocks its light. As the PCs enter the Lighthouse, Emma is hidden in the basement and notices the intruders. While they are up on the roof, she gets out of the basement and heads to the house, where she starts a ritual to raise the corpses back to “life”, hoping they will deal with the in- truders. As she leaves the secret basement, she forgets to close the secret floor hatch in the main room behind her on the main room floor and slams the lighthouse door open. The PCs, even if they are on the rooftop should hear that sound, unless they closed the hatch behind them. This should build tension as the PCs realize someone else is moving around the island. If the team splits up and a PC stayed at ground level, Emma leaves by a secondary exit, reaching her home unnoticed. In her hurry to leave, she drops a glass bot- tle as she leaves the room. This contributes to reveal the presence of a secret basement as the PCs who stayed at the ground level would hear the glass shattering. Mak- ing a thorough search of the area revels a hidden hatch on the floor through which the PCs can get into the basement.  Secret Basement  The previous keeper used that basement for smug- gling but it all stopped with his death. Remillard dis- covered the room a while ago but never actually used it until recently, when he locked his daughter in it, preventing her from approaching Livia’s body. He did not know that Emma had time to secure her mother’s finger bones before Remillard locked her down there. While Remillard knew about the basement, he never actually found its other secret exit. It is only in her at- tempt to escape that Emma discovered it. When the PCs enter the basement, paraphrase the following: The hatch opens to narrow wooden stairs, which lead down to a small room. In the center of the room is a table upon which stand a dozen lit can- dles. It seems that there is a pattern drawn on the table. In a corner of the room is a pile of hay, prop- erly placed to form a bed. Here and there, crates are scattered across the room. On one of them are empty wine bottles. Close to that crate is an opening in the wall, wide enough for someone to squeeze through. You can tell it leads outside as you can hear the sound of the tide clashing with the island.  The crates are mostly empty or contain hay. These were used to hide smuggled goods. Some of them con- tain empty wine bottles. Remillard drank the wine long ago. The table is where Emma performed her dark ritu- al, summoning the banshee. The pattern on the table is a magic circle, drawn with Emma’s own blood. A   Hard ( ddd ) Knowledge (Forbidden) check   can be made to determine that the drawing is linked to some nec- romantic witchcraft, as some of the symbols drawn are linked to death. The opening in the wall is a secret door left ajar so daylight would come inside the room. This secret door, along with a rope and a pulley fixed to the ceiling, was used to haul smuggled goods in and out of the base- ment to a boat that would stand just beside the island.  Putting pieces together  By now, the PCs should have gathered enough information hinting at what is going on:the dug up grave of Livia, the argument between Remi- llard and his daughter, the banshee’s wail heard by Michael, and Remillard wondering what he has done to earn this, referring to having a witch child. The missing pieces of the puzzle are Emma and the banshee’s whereabouts. While the PCs are thinking this over and exploring the basement, Emma has taken a head start and raised the dead guards as well as her father to face the PCs.

Dying Light Dying Light   19  It is possible to climb out of the secret door to reach the ground level of the island, but that requires an   Av- erage ( dd ) Athletics check . If Emma could not leave the basement through the main entrance, she went out that way.  Fighting the Dead  Once they are done investigating the basement, the PCs should track down Emma who slipped past them. As they leave the lighthouse, they face the reanimated. When they meet them, paraphrase the following: You get out of the lighthouse and face a terrifying sight. The baron’s men, along with Mr. Brown, are standing up and walking toward you. Their eyes are dull white as the pupils and irises seem to have vanished. They walk slowly but steadily, threat- ening and feral, with a low posture, as if getting ready to pounce.  This unexpected sight and experience with the un- living is something that can shake the characters’ will. Upon encountering the undead, characters have to make an   Average ( dd ) fear check . Use fear rules on page 243 of the   Genesys Core Rulebook   to resolve the check. Note that there are as many Raised Dead adversaries as there are PCs in the group.  Raised Dead (Rival)  Soak Value 5  Wound Threshold   M/R Defense 12   1   0  Brawn 3  Agility 2  Intellect 1  Cunning 2  Willpower 1  Presence 1  Skills:   Brawl 1 ( cdd ), Vigilance 1 ( c )  Talents:   None.  Abilities:  •   Silver Anathema:   This adversary is vulnerable to alchemical silver (see “Alchemical Silver” on page 74 of the   Inquisition   document). •   Undead:   Does not need to breathe, eat, or drink, and can survive underwater; immune to poisons and toxins. Cannot benefit from drinking potions and elixirs.  Equipment:  •   Undead   Strike:   Brawl;   Damage   5;   Critical   4; Ranged (Engaged); Knockdown  Meeting Emma  As soon has the PCs defeat the undead, Emma steps in. When that happens, paraphrase the following: Coming out of the fog is a teenage girl. The child wears a dirty and torn brown robe and is bare- foot. Her dark brown hair is tousled and locks are partly covering her face. She looks at you ftercely. ‘ Go away!’ she orders, pointing to the trail leading to the dock  Emma wants to be left alone with her mother and wishes the PCs would depart immediately. While she does not care about the trouble the situation is causing to the villagers, she does not inherently want to doom them either. The PCs are presented with an opportunity to either solve the incident peacefully by convincing Emma to go away, or by weakening her prior to fighting the ban- shee. It is possible that players want to eliminate the threat outright without any desire to understand what happened to the girl or how the fog came up. Should the PCs draw their weapons and engage quickly or other- wise show hostile intents, have the banshee jump right in and proceed to “Final Showdown” on page 20.

Dying Light Dying Light 20  Social Encounter  Emma would prefer to avoid the fight by sending the PCs away. This means the characters have a chance to interact with her prior to combat. This encounter follows the Social Encounter rules on page 119 of the Genesys Core Rulebook. For this situation, the PCs’ goal should be to lift the fog. Depending on their mo- tivations, the PCs might convince her to have the fog lifted and let Emma get away or having her question her latest decisions and doubt her ways. Emma might grow impatient at the characters try- ing to talk their way out instead of leaving the island. If a social check targeting Emma generates   hhh   or  d , she gets angry at the characters and the banshee arrives. In this case, proceed to “Fighting Emma and Livia Together” on page 20.  Convincing Emma to lift the Fog  If the PCs succeed in bringing Emma’s Strain beyond her Strain threshold, she will be willing to leave Dark- wood Cove on her own and dispel the fog. This might prove an unsatisfactory solution as this leaves a danger- ous creature out as well as a witch. Should they decide to let her go without interfering, Emma leaves the is- land and dismisses the fog. Proceed to “Aftermath” on page 22.  Making Emma doubt think her motives  Over the past days, Emma was driven by her anger and delusions. She had the banshee impersonate her moth- er and it killed a few men already. In her heart, Emma is not evil and does not wish to needlessly harm people. Since it all started, she did not take the time to sit and think about the situation. By making her second-guess what her motives are, it is possible to soothe her and since her emotions are powering the banshee, it would weaken the creature. If the characters are able to make Emma exceed half her Strain Threshold, the banshee’s Soak will be reduced by 1. If the PCs manage to make her exceed her Strain Threshold, the banshee’s rank in the Adversary talent will be reduced by 1. Should that happen, the banshee will still appear but will fight on its own against the PCs as Emma will be struggling with her own feelings. Pro- ceed to “Fighting Livia alone” on page 20.  Final Showdown Fighting Emma and Livia Together  If the player characters are hostile to Emma or fail at the social encounter, Emma yells at them and suddenly, the fog thickens, to the point where interacting with any- thing beyond engaged range imposes a   b b   on checks and an additional   b   for each range band further to a maximum of   b b b b   at medium range. When that happens, paraphrase the following: The fog suddenly becomes denser and Emma seems to practically vanish in it. Only a faint sil- houette hints at her presence. Then, by her side, an adult sized form materializes, and it seems to be ftoating about one foot offi the ground. The sil- houette of its body looks female, but it has an odd hammer-shaped head.  Emma and the Banshee start the encounter engaged with each other and should be at short range from the PCs. When the banshee joins Emma, it rejuvenates the girl’s conviction and she heals 5 strain.  Fighting Livia alone  If the PCs were able to shake Emma to the point that she realizes she is doing evil deeds, the banshee will ap- pear and fight alone against the PCs to prevent them from shutting her down by soothing the teenager. At some point during the encounter, PCs will be en- gaged with the banshee. At this point, paraphrase the following:

Dying Light Dying Light   21 As you and the floating entity get closer, you get a better look at it. The creature looks like a pale white woman, with only a ragged long skirt to cover herself, leaving her chest exposed. Even though you can distinguish her legs’ shape under the skirt, no feet are actually visible. The creature’s skin seems to be partially covered in bark. Her arms end up in what seems to be roots. They are constantly undulating, as if they were sentient. The face of the woman seems to be a triangular piece of wood, attached directly to her neck. In the middle of it, where you would expect facial features, is a gaping black hole.  Emma (Nemesis)  Soak Value 1  Wound Threshold   M/R Defense 10   0   0  Strain Threshold 14  Brawn 1  Agility 2  Intellect 2  Cunning 3  Willpower 3  Presence 2  Skills:   Coercion 1 ( cdd ), Deception 1 ( cdd ), Vigi- lance 1 ( cd ), Witchcraft 1 ( cdd )  Talents:   None.  Abilities:  •   Silver Anathema:   This adversary is vulnerable to alchemical silver (see “Alchemical Silver” on page 74 of the   Inquisition   document). •   Witch Blood:   Once per encounter, the GM may spend a Story Point as an incidental. If they do so, Emma may voluntarily suffer up to 2 Wounds to heal twice that number in Strain.  Equipment:  •   Dagger:   Melee (Light) ( d   b   ); Damage 3; Critical 3; Accurate 1  Emma’s behavior  Emma does not have combat skills and thus relies on magic to fend off the PCs. Since she has no empathic link to any of them, most of her spells will not work and she lacks the Dark Utterance talent to circumvent that disadvantage. She prefers to avoid direct confrontation and focus on warding spells. Since she is not a skilled witch herself, she only uses spells with a maximum of one increase in difficulty. If targeted by attacks, she will ward herself by casting a simple ward spell on herself. If that does not discour- age enemies from attacking her, she will attack with her dagger, hoping to wound a PC and gain access to fresh blood. Once she has a PC’s blood, she will cast Plague on them. If left alone, Emma will cast a ward spell with the Ret- ribution additional effect to ward Livia. Once it is done, she will cast a ward spell on herself in case enemies will shift their attention to her. Once both ward spells are on, she spends her turns concentrating on them.  Livia (Nemesis)  Soak Value 6  Wound Threshold   M/R Defense 25   1   1  Strain Threshold 15  Brawn 4  Agility 2  Intellect 2  Cunning 3  Willpower 4  Presence 2  Skills:   Brawl 2 ( ccdd ), Vigilance 2 ( ccdd )  Talents:  •   Adversary 1:   Upgrade difficulty of all combat checks against this target once.  Abilities:  •   Dual Initiative:   Livia rolls twice during initiative. She acts twice per round. •   Eyeless Sight:   This adversary does not add   b   to checks due to darkness or concealment, and are immune to abilities or Critical Injuries that affect a creature’s sight. •   Flyer:   Can fly; see the Flying sidebar on page 100 of the Genesys Core Rulebook. •   Silver Anathema:   This adversary is vulnerable to alchemical silver (see “Alchemical Silver” on page 74 of the   Inquisition   document). •   Undead:   Does not need to breathe, eat, or drink, and can survive underwater; immune to poisons and toxins. Cannot benefit from drinking potions and elixirs. •   Wail:   Once per round, Livia can emit a super- natural wail. Anyone within Medium range must make a   Hard ( ddd ) Discipline check . On a failed check, they suffer one strain plus one strain per   f  generated.   hhh   can be used to make the victim loose their free maneuver.  Equipment:  •   Roots:   Brawl; Damage 7; Critical 3; Range (Short); Ensnare, Knockdown

Dying Light Dying Light 22  Livia’s behavior  Livia is the main threat here. She gets two activations per round, and on one of them, she will always be us- ing her Wail special ability. For the other activation, she will engage the PC and use her Root attack. This attack can hit adversaries both at engaged and short range.In both cases, the base difficulty is   Average ( dd ) .Livia will always prioritize a PC attacking or somewhat in- teracting with Emma as her target.  Livia’s Destruction  Once she is defeated, Livia’s body explodes as Lilithia’s essence is released from her. This takes the form of a dark smoke traveling outward from her location at high speed. PCs as well as Emma are knocked out by this shockwave. As she is being destroyed, Livia lets out a final moan (Wail special ability).  Aftermath  The destruction of the banshee marks the end of the combat encounter, as Emma will not fight after this. If Emma is still alive when Livia is killed, she drops on her knees and starts crying and screaming, totally ignoring the PCs. Over the following minutes, the fog disperses and the bay regains its usual calm. The village can now be seen at the horizon.  Ending the Adventure  The immediate threat has been dealt with, and the fog is gone. Baron Rowan Lewis will reward the PCs as promised. From now on, life in Darkwood Cove will pursue its course and naval activities will resume.  Emma’s Fate  If Emma was not killed during the final battle, PCs will have to decide what to do with her. Even though the banshee is no more, Emma remains a witch. Depend- ing on the player characters’ motivations, they can go different ways on this situation.  Purging the Evil  The Church wants to put down all witches. Religious characters will likely want Emma dead. They can ex- ecute the child on the island, or bring her back to town to execute her publically. In this case, Priest Daniel will burn her on a pyre in front of the villagers.  Helping the Orphan  Emma has no one to take care of her. Fortunately for her, no one beside the PCs know she is an actual witch. They might want to help the child by either taking her with them or by entrusting her to the care of acquain- tances or an orphanage. Depending on the degree of help and the PC’s attitude toward her, Emma might end up becoming an ally to the party or a vengeful adver- sary.  Leave her to her Fate  The PCs, having fulfilled their duty might not want a re- sponsibility in the child’s fate. They can leave her on the island, mourning the death of her mother, and return to the village. In this case, Emma will escape through a polymorph spell. This will surely lead to her coming back as an adversary, in hopes to avenge Livia’s death.  Adventures beyond Dying Light  Completing the Dying Light Adventure should leave the party with some potential adventure hooks. Here are a few examples of what could await the PCs after the adventure.  Smugglers  Now that the Browns are out, someone will have to take care of the lighthouse. Some smuggler might find their way into this position, and develop the village’s black market activities. This could bring some known crimi- nal patrons and the baron might need the PCs’ help to deal with the situation. On the other hand, maybe the PCs, after discovering the Lighthouse has a secret base- ment perfect for operating such activities, will volun- teer to maintain the Lighthouse and run the smuggling operation themselves. This could lead to interactions with shady individuals and other criminal groups.  Gaining the baron’s favors  Now that the PCs are local heroes, the baron cannot simply ignore their heroic deeds. He might want to test

Dying Light Dying Light   23  their loyalty further by making them deal with vari- ous problems such as banditry, or diplomatic missions. This could at some point earn them to be knighted and take even more missions.  Joining the Inquisition  If the PCs or Daniel execute Emma, this will come to the attention of the Templars when they arrive. From there, they can offer the PCs to join their ranks and pe- tition to become templars.  There are other monsters out there  Should the PCs share their story with the townsfolk, the battle with the banshee will become part of the lo- cal folklore. The story might draw the attention of a monster hunter, tracking a big game. While seasoned, they do not think they can take down the creature by themself. Therefore, they suggest the PCs to join them in fighting the dark creature.

Inquisition Campaign Setting 24  Welcome to Darkwood Cove, one of Siven’s coastal communi- ties. Bordering the Hungry Sea, this village is a key location for the county as it acts as one of its main trade hub. One night, the old lighthouse suddenly went dark, threaten- ing the settlement’s economy and endangering the incoming ships. The baron sent his men to investigate but they never came back. Suspecting witch activity, the local priest sum- mons the Inquisitorium but it will take time to get there. The baron cannot wait any longer and calls upon a band of adven- turers to investigate. This first Adventure Module for Inquisition will have the play- ers investigate a dark and secluded offshore lighthouse. This Adventure Module includes: •   A mystery-themed investigation for four characters. •   New adversaries •   Four pregenerated characters you can use to play this ad- venture.  Dice App available where apps are sold. Genesys Core Rulebook and either the Genesys Dice or Dice App are required to use this supplement.